# Linux LPIC-1: System Administrator

## Linux installation and Package management

### Manage Shared Libraries

#### What are shared libraries

!!! This file needs further editing !!!!

Shared libraries are files containing functions (and other objects)
that applications use during their runtime, Shared Library file names
are typically lib[name].so.[version], and can be located in different directories.

/lib
/lib64
/usr/lib
/usr/local/lib
/usr/share

##### Static link

A static link is when an application is bundled with
the shared libraries it uses.

Pros:
* The application will always have the correct version of the shared library it needs

Cons:
* The size of the application will increase with the size of it's libraries
* Sometimes butfixes and version bumps will require the application to distribute a new version of the library

##### Dynamic linking

A Dynamic link is when a shared object is loaded to memory
only when a program that runs it is started, after loaded
any application can use the library.
Every time an application needs to use a shared Library
the ld.so service is called.
the 'ldd' command can show which shared libraries are used by which
application, the name of the library and its location.

Pros:
* Applications can share a library

Cons:
* Slower then static linking

##### The ldd command

This example will print to screen a list of libraries used by
the application,
```
$ ldd /path/to/binary

(library name) => (library location) (hex number of the location in memory it will be loaded)
```
Example output:
```
libpthread.so.0 => /usr/lib/libpthread.so.0 (0x00007feb9917a000)
```

##### The ldconfig command

Configures the dynamic linker runtime bindings.
or in other words, creates links and cache the most recent shared Libraries
that are found on the LD_LIBRARY_PATH, the trusted directories(/lib, /usr/lib) and ld.so.conf.

##### The ld.so.conf file

While in the past this file has contained a list of directories containing shared objects,
in modern systems it contains an include statement.
```
include 'ld.so.conf.d/*.conf'
```
listing the files in this folder shows configuration files for different
kernels installed on the system and also for 3rd party Applications
```
ls -lah /etc/ld.so.conf.d/
```
!!!!!!!!!!!!! Exmaple needed!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Checking those files' contents reveals a list of directories that contains
shared objects relevant to that application.
